Use more overview tables for annotations (#3628)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/annotations.tex

\section{Usage Restrictions}\label{usage-restrictions}

The annotations listed below are used to restrict the ways in which classes may be used.
\begin{center}
\begin{tabular}{l|l l}
\hline
\tablehead{Annotation} & \tablehead{Description} & \tablehead{Details}\\
\hline
\hline

> {\lstinline!singleInstance!} & Allow at most one instane & \Cref{modelica:singleInstance}\\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{\lstinline!singleInstance!} & Allow at most one instance & \Cref{modelica:singleInstance}\\
```

{\lstinline!mustBeConnected!} & Connector must be connected at least once & \Cref{modelica:mustBeConnected}\\

> {\lstinline!mayOnlyConnectOnce!} & Connector must be connected at most once & \Cref{modelica:mayOnlyConnectOnce}\\

Reviewer: Description should be consistent with the name:
```suggestion
{\lstinline!mayOnlyConnectOnce!} & Connector may at most be connected once & \Cref{modelica:mayOnlyConnectOnce}\\
```

Author: I wanted consistent descriptions for the two annotations, so this is just a matter of conflicting objectives.  I'll use your suggestion in order to make progress on the PR.

> {\lstinline!mayOnlyConnectOnce!} & Connector may at most be connected once & \Cref{modelica:mayOnlyConnectOnce}\\

Reviewer: I don't think these two do not belong in a section described as "restrict the ways in which classes may be used", as it is placed on the connector components in the class - not on the class itself (in contrast to singleInstance).

Either restore the previous separate "connection restriction" section, or possibly have a more generic heading.
Note that "obsolete" may possible be seen as a restriction on how classes are used.

Reviewer: Yes, seems ok.

\section{Graphical User Interface}\label{annotations-for-the-graphical-user-interface}\label{graphical-user-interface}

The annotations listed below define properties for use in graphical user interfaces.
\begin{center}
\begin{tabular}{l|l l}
\hline
\tablehead{Annotation} & \tablehead{Description} & \tablehead{Details}\\
\hline
\hline
{\lstinline!preferredView!} & Default view when opening class & \Cref{modelica:preferredView}\\
{\lstinline!DocumentationClass!} & Purpose of class is documentation & \Cref{modelica:DocumentationClass}\\
{\lstinline!defaultComponentName!} & Default name for new components & \Cref{modelica:defaultComponentName}\\
{\lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes!} & Default type prefixes for new components & \Cref{modelica:defaultComponentPrefixes}\\
{\lstinline!missingInnerMessage!} & Message for unresolved \lstinline!outer! & \Cref{modelica:missingInnerMessage}\\
{\lstinline!absoluteValue!} & Quantity is absolute & \Cref{modelica:absoluteValue}\\

> {\lstinline!defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent!} & Relax verification of non-simulation class & \Cref{modelica:defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent}\\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{\lstinline!defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent!} & Relax verification of connections & \Cref{modelica:defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent}\\
```
I think that mentioning non-simulation is more confusing than helping, but I'm not sure if the new text is good.

Author: How about this?
```suggestion
{\lstinline!defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent!} & Suppress certain verification errors & \Cref{modelica:defaultConnectionStructurallyInconsistent}\\
```

Reviewer: Ok, looks ok

Reviewer: Or, "balancing" instead of "verification"? (The problem is how to describe so that it makes sense - it doesn't mean that the models are less correct overall; just different.)

Author: Yes, that's one of the advantages with _certain verification errors_; it has less of the spirit of being full-blown errors.

{\lstinline!obsolete!} & Message when using obsolete class & \Cref{modelica:obsolete}\\
{\lstinline!unassignedMessage!} & Hint for unmatched variable & \Cref{modelica:unassignedMessage}\\

> {\lstinline!Dialog!} & Setup for component modifications & \Cref{modelica:Dialog}\\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{\lstinline!Dialog!} & Setup for modifications & \Cref{modelica:Dialog}\\
```
Since it can also be used for short replaceable classes it is best to not specify "component".

If not specified the default view is tool-specific.
\end{semantics}
\end{annotationdefinition}

\begin{annotationdefinition}[DocumentationClass]
\begin{synopsis}\begin{lstlisting}
/*literal*/ constant Boolean DocumentationClass;
\end{lstlisting}\end{synopsis}
\begin{semantics}
Only allowed as class annotation on any kind of class and only having effect when \lstinline!true!, meaning that this class and all classes within it are treated as having the annotation \lstinline!preferredView = "info"!.
If the annotation \lstinline!preferredView! is explicitly set for a class, it has precedence over a \lstinline!DocumentationClass! annotation.

\begin{nonnormative}
A tool may display such classes in special ways.
For example, the description texts of the classes might be displayed instead of the class names, and if no icon is defined, a special information default icon may be displayed in the package browser.
\end{nonnormative}
\end{semantics}
\end{annotationdefinition}

\begin{annotationdefinition}[defaultComponentName]
\begin{synopsis}\begin{lstlisting}
/*literal*/ constant String defaultComponentName;
\end{lstlisting}\end{synopsis}
\begin{semantics}

> \lstinline!defaultComponentName! is a class annotation giving the recommended component name to use when creating a component of the class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \lstinline!defaultComponentName! is a class annotation giving the recommended component name to use when creating a component of the class.
```
Avoid starting a sentence with a lower-case letter.

Author: There are numerous examples of starting sentences like this with a lower case initial in inline code, so I don't think we should start using another style here.

Reviewer: Well, 109 lines starting with `The \lstinline`, 28 `A \lstinline` and 4 `An \lstinline`
And there are only 76 lines starting with `\lstinline` followed by a lower-case letter - many of them not being real sentences, but just items in a list.

Author: Sure, but I hope that of the 109, a majority are such that it comes natural to formulate using the definite form.  Here, it just looks lika a contrived artifact of applying a rule which was not made with technical texts like ours in mind.

Reviewer: On the contrary, it is applied in many technical texts like ours, because it reduces the risk of errors and misinterpretations.

Obviously the sentence can be reformulated to be natural and more direct:
```suggestion
The class annotation \lstinline!defaultComponentName! gives the recommended component name to use when creating a component of the class.
```

In addition to the 109 lines starting with `The \lstinline`, there are 62 lines starting with `The <word> \lstinline`, and 54 lines with two words, 43 lines with three words, and 31 with four words (and some lines starting with A/An followed by some words as well.)

If the default name cannot be used (e.g., since it is already in use), another name based on \lstinline!defaultComponentName! shall be derived automatically, except as described under \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes!.
It is an error if the string is not a valid identifier.
When automatically deriving a name, any trailing `\lstinline!1!' in the \lstinline!defaultComponentName! shall be disregarded.
If not specified, the names of new components are tool-specific.
\end{semantics}
\end{annotationdefinition}

\begin{annotationdefinition}[defaultComponentPrefixes]
\begin{synopsis}\begin{lstlisting}
/*literal*/ constant String defaultComponentPrefixes;
\end{lstlisting}\end{synopsis}
\begin{semantics}

> \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! is a class annotation giving a whitespace separated list of recommended type prefixes to include in the \lstinline[language=grammar]!type-prefix! part of a \lstinline[language=grammar]!component-clause1! generated when creating a component of the class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! is a class annotation giving a whitespace separated list of recommended type prefixes to include in the \lstinline[language=grammar]!type-prefix! part of a \lstinline[language=grammar]!component-clause1! generated when creating a component of the class:
```

Author: Same as above; better to not inject _The_.

Reviewer: Similarly:
```suggestion
The class annotation \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! gives a whitespace separated list of recommended type prefixes to include in the \lstinline[language=grammar]!type-prefix! part of a \lstinline[language=grammar]!component-clause1! generated when creating a component of the class:
```

\begin{lstlisting}[language=grammar]
type-prefix type-specifier component-declaration
\end{lstlisting}

The following prefixes may be included in the \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! string: \lstinline!inner!, \lstinline!outer!, \lstinline!replaceable!, \lstinline!constant!, \lstinline!parameter!, \lstinline!discrete!.
The default is an empty string.

\begin{nonnormative}

> In combination with \lstinline!defaultComponentName!, \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! can be used to make it easy for users to create \lstinline!inner! components matching the \lstinline!outer! declarations; see also example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In combination with \lstinline!defaultComponentName!, the \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! can be used to make it easy for users to create \lstinline!inner! components matching the \lstinline!outer! declarations; see also example below.
```
Not sure, but think it is better.

Author: It would have made more sense if we didn't start sentences without _The_ in front of lower case initials in inline code.

Author: I see.  Then this rewrite should also do the trick:
```suggestion
By using \lstinline!defaultComponentPrefixes! in combination with \lstinline!defaultComponentName!, it becomes easy for users to create \lstinline!inner! components matching the \lstinline!outer! declarations; see also example below.
```

inner replaceable World world;
\end{lstlisting}
\end{example}
\end{semantics}
\end{annotationdefinition}

\begin{annotationdefinition}[absoluteValue]
\begin{synopsis}\begin{lstlisting}

> /*literal*/ constant Boolean absoluteValue;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/*literal*/ constant Boolean absoluteValue = true;
```
Should keep the default.

Author: In 3.6 it wasn't clear that there was a default, and I consider the specification of default an accident of the change of notation.  Hence, I think we should open a separate discussion about how to describe the default.

Author: This is now the topic of #3631.

Additionally, when a user defined model is structurally inconsistent, a tool should try to pinpoint in which class the error is present.

> This annotation avoids then to show a wrong error message.

Reviewer: I think we might clarify this in the future - I realize it wasn't changed, but I think that clarifying this would give insights in how to write the one-liner. But perhaps best to have it as a separate later PR.

Author: Sounds good.
